## Glossary

📚 New terms and their definitions for Course 1 Module 1:

##### Abstraction
To take a relatively complex system and simplify it for our use.

##### Algorithm
A series of steps that solves specific problems.

##### ASCII
The oldest character encoding standard used is ASCII. It represents the English alphabet, digits, and punctuation marks.

##### Binary system
The communication that a computer uses is referred to as the binary system, also known as the base-2 numeral system.

##### Byte
A group of 8 bits.

##### Character encoding
Used to assign binary values to characters so that we as humans can read them.

##### Computer
A device that stores and processes data by performing calculations.

##### Cryptography
The overarching discipline that covers the practice of coding and hiding messages from third parties.

##### Decimal form - base 10 system
In the decimal system, there are 10 possible numbers you can use ranging from zero to nine.

##### Digital divide
The growing skills gap between people with and without digital literacy skills.

##### Information technology
The use of digital technology, like computers and the internet, to store and process data into useful information.

##### Linux OS
Linux is one of the largest open-source operating systems used heavily in business infrastructure and in the consumer space.

##### Logic gates
Allow transistors to perform more complex tasks, like deciding where to send electrical signals depending on logical conditions.

##### Open source
This means developers allow other developers to share, modify, and distribute their software for free.

##### PDA (Personal Digital Assistant)
Allows computing to go mobile.

##### Punch cards
A sequence of cards with holes in them used to automatically perform calculations instead of manually entering them by hand.

##### RGB model
RGB (red, green, and blue) model is the basic model of representing colors.

##### UTF-8
The most prevalent encoding standard used today.

🌟 Feel free to refer to this glossary throughout the course to help you understand key terms and concepts.