# DNS Resource Record Types

Remember, DNS is one of the most important technologies that an IT support specialist needs to know in order to troubleshoot networking issues. So let's get into the nitty-gritty.

## A Record
The most common resource record is known as an A record. An A record is used to point a certain domain name at a certain IPv4 IP address. In its most basic use, a single A record is configured for a single domain name, but a single domain name can have multiple A records too. This allows for a technique known as DNS round robin to be used to balance traffic across multiple IPs.

## DNS Round Robin
Round robin is a concept that involves iterating over a list of items one by one in an orderly fashion. When a DNS resolver performs a lookup of a domain name with multiple A records, all IPs would be returned in the order they were configured. The DNS resolving computer would know that it should try to use the first entry, but it knows about all IPs just in case a connection to the first one fails. The next computer to perform a lookup would also receive all IPs in the response, but the ordering will have changed. This pattern would continue for every DNS resolution attempt, cycling through all of the A records configured and balancing the traffic across these IPs.

## Quad A Record
Another resource record type that's becoming more and more popular is the quad A record. A quad A record is very similar to an A record, except that it returns an IPv6 address instead of an IPv4 address.

## CNAME Record
The CNAME record is also super common. A CNAME record is used to redirect traffic from one domain to another. It's really useful because it ensures you only have to change the canonical IP address of a server in one place. If we have both microsoft.com and www.microsoft.com, we can set up a CNAME record for microsoft.com that resolves to www.microsoft.com, and then we only have to change the A record for www.microsoft.com if the underlying IP address ever changes.

## MX Record
Another important resource record type is the MX record. MX stands for mail exchange, and this resource record is used to deliver email to the correct server. It allows companies to run their web and mail servers on different machines with different IPs, ensuring that email gets delivered to the designated mail server.

## SRV Record
The SRV record is similar to the MX record but is used to define the location of various specific services. It can be defined to return the specifics of many different service types, such as calendar and scheduling services.

## TXT Record
The TXT record was originally intended for associating descriptive text with a domain name for human consumption. However, it has been increasingly used to convey additional data intended for other computers to process. It can be used to communicate configuration preferences about network services or convey additional information to service providers.

These are just a few examples of DNS resource record types commonly used. There are also other record types like NS or SOA records, which are used to define authoritative information about DNS zones.

Remember to use the appropriate record types based on your specific needs and configurations. 🌐