# Welcome back!

You've learned about the basics of computing with binary and the hardware layer of the computer architecture. Now, it's time to move on to the next layer, the operating system. By the end of this lesson, you'll know what an operating system is, and what makes up an operating system. You'll also get some hands-on experience with the three biggest operating systems used today.

## About the Instructor

Before we get deeper into operating systems, I'd like to introduce myself to you. 👋

👩‍💻 My name is Cindy Gouache and I'm a Site Reliability Engineer at Google. The team I work on is responsible for the management and support of Google's entire internal mobile fleet, which includes Android OS, iOS, and Chrome OS. But my journey in tech started from a different role.

Before focusing on mobile, I was a systems administrator on the Linux team. And before that, I was an Operations Engineer. However, like many Googlers you'll meet, I started my career as an IT support specialist. I've been working in IT for seven years now.

## My Journey into Tech

The first time I remember interacting with computers was in middle school when my teacher brought them into our classroom so we could create fun video and multimedia projects. At home, it was my brother who brought technology into our house. 

My parents were immigrants from Vietnam, and we didn't have a lot of money growing up. So, we had to be creative if we wanted to play with a computer at home. I can remember spending hours with my brother as he assembled a computer, and I would ask a million questions.

Eventually, I wanted to try and build my own computer. So, I gathered up some old parts and saved money to buy new components. I tried to put all the parts together based on what I remembered my brother doing, but it just didn't work. It turns out that I used some incompatible parts.

But through a lot of trial and error, troubleshooting, and long search sessions on the Internet, I finally got it to work. The feeling I got when I heard my computer boot up for the first time was amazing. Before I knew it, I was also working on computers. I really enjoyed the intense concentration and problem-solving required in IT.

However, I didn't think a career in tech was even possible back then. Once I got to college, I had to find a job to help pay for tuition, and that job was an IT support specialist on campus. That's when I realized that tech is actually something I could pursue as a career.

## The Importance of Operating Systems

Operating systems are an essential part of IT support. Everyone uses their computer to accomplish something, whether that's browsing the web, writing a novel, making graphics, playing video games, and more. Whatever the case may be, they need to interact with their operating system to do it.

As an IT support specialist, it's essential to understand how operating systems work so you can help someone accomplish the task they set out to do. This could involve figuring out why an application won't start, why the graphics look funny on their video games, or resolving any other issues that may arise. Things can get messy and challenging, but that's part of the fun!

Let's begin. 🚀